>> Nina Zakharenko: Tuples are a
lightweight collection that are generally
used to keep track of related but
different items.
And again,
that's just how they're used in practice,
but you're free to do whatever you want,
Python's not gonna stop you.
>> Nina Zakharenko: While lists
are mutable, right, we were able to I add,
remove items from them,
changed the values.
Tuples are immutable,
that means that once a tuple
has been created,
the items in it can't change.
Okay, and you might ask, okay, we just
learned about lists, they are awesome,
why do we need tuple
that sounds complicated?
>> Nina Zakharenko: Tuples are useful for
things like containing a snapshot of data,
so let's say you wanna represent
a spreadsheet in your code,
a tuple might represent each
row in the spreadsheet, right?
So your spreadsheet has different columns,
and
each position in the tuple relates
to a value in a different column.
And these tuples can't
continually be changed,
they can't be added to or removed
from like you would do with a list,
which also provides you a little bit of
added security with your data, right?
You generally know that the tuple
is gonna look the same when
you access it later on, so
looking at tuples in practice.
>> Nina Zakharenko: To make empty and
one-item tuples,
>> Nina Zakharenko: You use parentheses,
just empty parentheses,
the type(a| we'll see is a class tuple.
>> Nina Zakharenko: There's something
kind of tricky here, all right?
If the square brackets
are associated with the list,
you might think that the parentheses
are associated with tuples, right?
We use two empty parentheses, and we end
up with an empty tuple, but pay attention,
things get tricky when we try to make
a tuple that just has one item in it.
>> Nina Zakharenko: Let's say I try to
make this tuple b, if I check the type(b|,
we'll see that the class is actually int,
okay, what happened there?
So tuples are not just parentheses,
tuples are about commas,
they're kind of the combination of,
>> Nina Zakharenko: Optional parentheses,
but the comma is the important part.
So knowing that,
>> Nina Zakharenko: How
would I make my one item tuple be a tuple?
>> Class: Add a comma.
>> Nina Zakharenko: Add a comma,
and where would the comma go?
>> Class: After the 1.
>> Nina Zakharenko: After the 1,
if I check the type (c| now, it's a tuple.
>> Nina Zakharenko: Unfortunately,
doing this is a syntax error in Python,
right, just doesn't make sense.
So that's why we have the two empty
parentheses being the empty tuple,
but the comma here being
what makes a one item tuple.
And now that I have my comma, I can
make tuples that are as long as I want.
Let's say we have
a spreadsheet of students, and
we'd like to represent each row
in the spreadsheet with a tuple.
We can say student is opening parentheses,
and
let's say her students name is Marcy,
and she's 8,
and her favorite subject is history,
and her GPA is 3.5.
Just like with a list, I can go through
and access the items in my tuple by index,
so what year will student|0| return?
>> Class: Marcy.
>> Nina Zakharenko: Marcy,
right, and student |1|.
>> Class: 8.
>> Nina Zakharenko: 8, right, okay,
I told you that tuples are immutable,
so what if I try to change the value
in my tuple, what will I see?
>> Student: TypeError,
object does not supported-
>> Nina Zakharenko: TypeError, tuple
object does not support item assignment,
makes sense, right, it's immutable.
>> Nina Zakharenko: And because of that,
do you think tuples have an append or
extend method, or pop method?
>> Class: No.
>> Nina Zakharenko: No, right,
they don't, you can't change them.
All right, so all of this sounds like
a lot of work without a lot of benefit,
right, kind of already have lists,
why do we need this new data structure?
Well, not so,
tuples are actually really great when you
depend on your data staying unchanged.
And because of this guarantee,
you can use tuples in other
types of containers where the container
needs a key that is immutable.
Like a dictionary key needs to be
immutable, you can use a tuple,
as long as the tuple
contains all immutable data.
So we'll talk about that a little
bit later, but that's an important
distinction, you can not use a mutable
data type that can be changed, added to,
as a key in data structure like
a dictionary, you will just get an error.